# TFM
Prediction of Flight Delays using Machine Learning

This project's main objective is to forecast airline commercial flight delays that can be produced by many factors. Negative effects of flight delays are mostly financial for travellers (disrupting air passengers schedules), the airline industry (decrease of passengers demand due to the reduction of the airline's reputation), and, also, airport authorities. It also produces and indirect economical impact, as an inefficient air transportation system requires a rise in the amount of required staff. Additionally, in the area of sustainability, it even has the potential to harm the environment due to an increase in fuel consumption and gas emissions, negatively affecting the greenhouse effect. Therefore, these considerations show how important and crucial it has become to estimate flight delays.

The flight delay prediction analysis will be useful for providing a precise study of the performance of specific airlines and airports, enabling crucial decision-making processes from every key participant in the air transportation system. In particular, the analysed dataset proceeds from the U.S. Department of Transportation’s (DOT) Bureau of Transportation Statistics (BTS) and represents national flight delays and cancellations during the year 2015.

The goal of this analysis is to develop a two-stage Machine Learning engine that can accurately forecast upcoming flight's arrival delay in minutes using real-time flights. First, a classifier model predicts whether the flight will be delayed or not, and if the delay occurs, then, a regression model predicts the arrival delay in minutes. These predictions are evaluated using Python, a high-level, general-purpose programming language, ideal for the purpose of this project. 
